---
published: false
layout: post
author: Enric Ribas
date: 2013-09-02T00:00:00.000Z
categories: 
  - news
---


> This will probably be out of date by the time you read this. :)

In the Ruby on Rails community,  we are very lucky. There are so many tools available for us to use that the problem often is finding out which ones are worth using and which ones aren't worth the time to install. 

Some of these things, my team will agree on and others they simply think I'm crazy. But these are the basic tools that I like to use when developing Ruby on Rails applications. 

## SHELL STUFF
### iTerm2

I love [iTerm2](http://www.iterm2.com/). It's a replacement for the standard Mac terminal but has a few nice features. The killer feature for me is split panes. Using a large screen like the iMac 27"s we have it's great to have iTerm2 fullscreened and then split the screen into vertical CMD-D and horizontal CMD-SHIFT-D splits. I like to use one pane for vim, one for rails console, one for bash, etc.  Use CMD-W to close a pane. Right-clicking will give you an option to move a pane around which is actually fun #i_am_nerd.

One press of CMD-Enter and just that pane gets fullscreened (especially useful when iTerm2 itself is not running as fullscreen). Press CMD-Enter again to return to the previous state.

Unfortunately, iTerm2 to my liking isn't set up properly when you first install it. You have to customize a few things. My first customization is setting up CMD-ALT-ENTER to always bring up or hide the terminal. No more ALT-TABbing around just press it and it's there. Seems pointless but will save you a ton of time in the long run.

I also set up keys for moving from window to window. I use CMD-[arrows] for switching from window to window. You can still use CMD-SHIFT [|] (left and right brackets) but it's pretty weird because it tracks which windows were opened first and not the order on the screen which is not intuitive. 

Mostly importantly, you need to set up new windows to open in the folder of the previous window. Not sure why that's not the default but whatever... Then you can open a new split it's already in the correct folder. This makes it really quick to be in the middle of a command, make a new pane, run a new command (or queue a new command for later) and then close it when it's done. 

We have different apps that we run, so I use multiple tabs for that. One project, one tab. Then I split panes for a rails console, an rspec screen, etc. CMD-1, CMD-2 to switch between projects.

### VIM bindings

I use vim bindings for my command line editing, because otherwise, well you know what it's like to edit a long command line with just arrow keys and backspace. It basically sucks...
Whenever you want to edit your command line you press ESC (which I have mapped to the CAPSLOCK key because seriously what's the f'ing point of CAPSLOCK? I use PCKeyboardHack for mac for that.)
run..
set -o vi
in your .bashrc file and get awesome vi-iness on your command line.

### Zeus

Rails is great but as your application grows, it takes longer and longer to start up. This gem makes it quite annoying run tests, generator, console, etc. Zeus boots up your environment once and stays loaded and ready for your commands. It's even smart enough to reload itself (sometimes) when you change certain files. It's Mountain Lion only, but if you have it, you should use Zeus. 

We used to use spork but we had problems with it and it doesn't work with generate or console, or server, just tests. It also doesn't restart itself with files changes. Basically Zeus is better.  

To run commands with Zeus, simply type 'zeus' instead of rails like 'zeus generate ...' or 'zeus server' or 'zeus rspec ...', etc. With Rake commands, type 'zeus rake command' like 'zeus rake routes'.

### Hitch

> Update: We now use [git pair](https://github.com/chrisk/git-pair)

We use the [hitch](https://github.com/therubymug/hitch) gem at work because we pair program 100% of the time (except for devOps stuff). This gem hijacks git reporting to automatically assign both people working on code to show up as authors. If you pair program, you should use this. 

### Aliases
Ok, I get made fun of here at work, but I love my aliases. If I have type something more than three times, it becomes an alias. Or if it's hard to remember after just one time. They are stored in [dotfiles in my github account](https://github.com/enricribas/dotfiles). Here are some examples of the less common ones...

```bash
migrate = bundle exec rake db:migrate db:test:prepare  # because I always forget to test prepare.

rs = zeus rspec -f d
gs = git status --short
glg = git log --color --decorate --oneline --graph
gpd = git pull && rspec spec && git push origin development # can't push without running tests
gc = git commit -m # you can always add -a after your comment
```

and my favourite and most perhaps the important, and the one everyone makes the most fun of me for ...
```bash
ali = vi ~/.bash_aliases # lets you quickly add a new alias.
```

## GEMFILE STUFF
### pry (and pry-remote)
I have no idea how I programmed before [pry](https://github.com/pry/pry). Pry lets you stop execution of code at any point by simply typing binding.pry. Then you get a REPL at the breakpoint in your server terminal. From here you can type commands, check variables, etc. When you're ready to continue type 'exit' or CTRL-D.

Unfortunately we now use POW so you have to use pry-remote which doesn't always work. To use pry-remote type binding.remote_pry in the code and then in a bash terminal enter 'pry-remote'.

### xray
I just recently discovered this [gem](https://github.com/brentd/xray-rails) and instantly fell in love. In chrome only, you can press CMD-SHFT-X and it will display a series of boxes around each of elements on the screen with the view that rendered that section. Clicking on one of those boxes will automatically open that file in Sublime. Amazing! It even works with backbone views!

### better_errors
Not a huge deal, but this [gem](https://github.com/charliesome/better_errors) creates nicer crash screens which open up a REPL at the point of the error which is really nice for debugging. I don't use often but I'm glad when I have it. 

Actually now that we use POW and pry sometimes doesn't work, you can explicitly raise an error and get a REPL which is great!

## EDITOR STUFF
## VIM
Personally, I love [VIM](http://www.vim.org/).  VIM is pretty crappy out of the box for Rails development, however, and setting it up is painful. I have set up [vimforrails.com](http://www.vimforrails.com/) with more information about setting it up. 

- A brief list of my favourite bundles, packages (whatever they are called) is listed here...
- vim-powerline
- ctrlp
- surround
- rails
- ack
- and many many more...

There are also a lot of other basic settings that I feel are a must for productive Rails development which is too lengthy and may deserve its own post. Feel free to check it out at my [github repo](http://www.vimforrails.com/).

### Sublime
Once [sublime](http://www.sublimetext.com/) is set up the way I like it,  I am almost as happy using it over VIM. Sublime is truly amazing and blazingly fast for GUI editor.  The community and packages are also amazing. If you are using any other GUI-based editor, I think you should switch. It has an unlimited trial period with nagging if you're not a professional developer or simply want to test it out. 

There are many many packages available but the ones I find most valuable are...

- syntax specific ones, like Rails, RSpec, SCSS, HAML, etc. which include snippets and highlighting
- SublimeAllAutocomplete - autocomplete across all files. 
- ERB Insert and Toggle Commands - it's awkward to type so this helps
- Git - for git blame, commits, etc., within sublime I only use blame inside Sublime but it's nice
- ColorPicker - for choosing CSS colours, very useful

Again, my setups are available on my [github](https://github.com/enricribas/Sublime-Rails-Settings) and everyone is welcome to use them. Feel free to fork and customize.

I also like Vintage (vi-like) mode in Sublime, though it's annoying to use with a pair because they press ESCAPE and get annoyed. And when I work alone I use VIM anyway, so Vintage is something I will probably remove soon from Sublime. Also it doesn't support everything in vim so it can be frustrating. 

Well, that's about all I can think of off the top of my head, good luck and comment about useful tools you use.
